MandelBox

Algorithm copied from this excellent app: http://digitalfreepen.com/mandelbox370/

The panel on the left holds two kinds of controls:
buttons, and one or two dimensional widgets.

Widgets:
Slide your finger up and down the list to select
the desired widget.  Its legend will turn Green.

Now on the image,
slide your finger to control the widget's parameters.

Note: certain widget rows manage a three part parameter (x,y and z).
The first graph displays the x,y values, the second graph displays the z value.
Slide one finger lt/rt/up/dn to control x,y values.
Slide two fingers to control the companion z value.

Note: Slide three fingers to change widget values at 10x speed.

Double tap on a widget legend to toggle it between
fast and slow editing.  Red graph background = slow.

Buttons:
A button command is performed by selecting the
legend, then releasing your finger.

Note: Double Tap image to toggle display of control panel.
Note: Swipe control panel up/down to move focus.

A. "Res: High, Low"
   Press this to toggle image resolution between Low and High.
   Use Low resolution to quickly navigate to region of interest,
   then switch to Hi for viewing.

B. "Zoom"
   Changing the width of the field of view effects a zoom effect.

C. "SFactor"
   MandelBox parameter controlling degree of box and sphere folding.

D. "epsilon"
   MandelBox parameter specifies how accurately we determine the mandelbox surface.
   Smaller values (on the left side) result in finer resolution (and slower rendering).

E. "BShip"
   I have no mathematical abilities, but I was reading about the burning ship algorithm,
   and how it is just like the Mandelbrot algorithm except for using the
   absolute value of a function term.  So, in the shader I added the following :
   v = clamp(v, -control.box.x, control.box.x) * control.box.y - v;
   if(control.burningShip) v = -abs(v);   <<---- added this
   Has a dramatic effect, including resemblance to the burning ship fractal in some regions.

F. "Sphere"
   Mandelbox uses three parameters to control spherical folding.
   This widget conrols the first two.

G. "Delta Sphere"
   Two values control how Sphere Fold parameters evolve over distance.
   "Delta Delta Sph"
   Two values control 'delta sphere' itself evolves.

H. "S Mult"
   Third spherical folding parameter controls the Sphere scaling factor.

I. "Box"
   Mandelbox uses two parameters to determine Box folding. Both are controlled here.

J. "Delta Box"
   Two values control how Box Fold parameters evolve over distance.
   "Delta Delta Box"
   Two values control how 'delta box' itself evolves.

K. "Julia: On, Off"
   Toggle switch enables the Julia set style.

L. "Julia XY", "JuliaZ"
   When Julia set style is enabled these widgets control the coordinates of the Julia point.

M. "Tint XY", "Tint Z"
   Controls red, green and blue coloring.

N. "Light XY", "Light Z""
   Control Z coordinate of the light.

O,P,Q. "Bright", "Shiny", "Fog"
   Control overall brightness and shinyness of Mandelbox.
   Not really fog, but a way to darken objects according to distance.
   Lower values render faster as well.

R. "Record", or "R ##"
   Start recording. During a recording session the button shows the number of keyframes recorded.
   Set all the widget settings as you like, then press this button to start a recording session.
   Then use "Move" and "Rotate" widgets to navigate to a new position,
   and press "Rec" again to store the next keyframe.
   Note: keyframes only record the position, view direction and stereo parallax,
   not changes you make to other widgets.

S. "Play"
   Once a least two keyframes are recorded, press this button to begin a playback session.
   Playback automatically rewinds to the beginning.
   Press this button a second time to stop playback.
   Note: when playback is started, all the widgets are returned to the settings you started
   with when making the recording.
   But during playback, only the camera position and aim are affected;
   you are free to change all the other widget settings as playback progresses.

T. "25" ... "1600"
   Controls the "speed" of playback by setting the number of frames
   that are rendered between recorded keyframes.
   Press this button to cycle through the various settings.

U. "Rsave"
   Launch the Recording Save/Load dialog.

V. "Save/Load"
   Launch save/load dialog for widget settings.

X. "Reset""
   Reset all params.

Y. "Stereo"
   Toggle stereo mode on/off.
   Image is rendered twice, for 'cross-eyed' 3D viewing.
   With the iPad held two feet away, slightly cross your eyes so that there is a third image in the middle.
   Relax your gaze, and concentrate only on that middle image, which is in 3D.
   Decide which poritions of the image should be 'closer' rather than 'farther', then
   use the Parallax widget to adjust direction and intensity of the the stereo effect.
   You will probably have to adjust parallax whenever you Rotate the image.

Z. "Radial S"   (Radial Symmetry)
   Set value to 0 (far left) to disable this function,
   otherwise the setting determines the radial symmetry of the drawing.
   Sorry, this doesn't work well with Stereo mode.

-----------------------

Note: for the Movement widgets (Move, Rotate): Slide 2 fingers to Move or Rotate at 10x speed

Move Widget:  always shown in lower left corner except during playback.
   Set Focus to this widget then drag finger across image to jog the camera left/right, up/down.

Move Widget2:
   Companion Move widget controls movement forward and backward.

Parallax:
   Controls the amount of stereo effect (when Stereo is active).
   Not all vistas work well in stereo, and each may need parallax adjustment for best effect.
   When it Does work, the results are fantastic!

Rotate: always shown in lower right corner except during playback.
   Drag anywhere to rotate camera in semi-controllable fashion. (algorithm needs work)

